---
title: Translate
---

# [Translate](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/translate)
Specifies an amount to displace objects within the display window. The x parameter specifies left/right translation, the y parameter specifies up/down translation.

Transformations are cumulative and apply to everything that happens after and subsequent calls to the function accumulates the effect. For example, calling translate _(50, 0)_ and then translate _(20, 0)_ is the same as translate _(70, 0)_. If `translate()` is called within 1, the transformation is reset when the loop begins again. This function can be further controlled by using `push()` and `pop()`.

## Translate in use
If we want to change the origin of drawing, then we need to tell p5.js where to go. Using the `translate(x,y)` function we can specify an _(x,y)_ location on the canvas. Note: that when doing so, you'll have to adjust how you draw shapes. In the example below, we start by drawing an ellipse at _(0,0)_ and then translating to the center of the canvas. These coordinates are now the _(0,0)_ for drawing. when we draw another ellipse at _(0,0)_ the ellipse is now at the center of the screen. If we wanted to draw another cirlce back at the old _(0,0)_ we would need to write <br> `ellipse(-width/2,-height/2,40,40)`

<script type="text/p5" data-autoplay data-width="260" data-preview-width="300" data-height="360">
function setup(){
  createCanvas(260,260);
  background(220);
  line(0,0,width/2,height/2);
  ellipse(0,0,40,40);
  translate(width/2,height/2);
  ellipse(0,0,40,40);
}
</script>

## Video Explanation
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/o9sgjuh-CBM?start=0&end=504" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Translate and Rotate

Let's go back to the sketch at the top of the page with the rotating square. If we want to write a sketch that does the same thing we'll need to set up both a new origin and an angle of rotation.

<script type="text/p5" data-autoplay data-width="360" data-preview-width="300" data-height="350">
function setup() {
  createCanvas(260, 260);
	rectMode(CENTER); //Draws rectangles more like ellipses
	angleMode(DEGREES); //Use angles instead of radians
}

function draw() {
  background(200);
	translate(width/2, height/2);
	rotate(frameCount*2);
	rect(0,0,100,100);
}
</script>

## Video Explanation
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/o9sgjuh-CBM?start=740&end=1025" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
