---
title: Basic p5.js Commands
---
# Basic p5.js Commands
Programming is the act of giving instructions to a computer. Unlike people, computers are very, very dumb, and can only understand very specific instructions that are written in a very specific way. While we might tell someone to go make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich and leave it at that, when it comes to computers you'd need to specify every single movement precisely and without error. always keep this in mind:
>Any time you think to yourself 'Wow! Computers are really smart,' remember, computers are very very dumb. People are smart. You're a person, and no matter what you think, you are infinitely smarter than the fastest, most expensive computer in the world.

## Antomy of a Command
Just about any programming language is built on commands. A command is a set of preprogrammed instructions that the computer and execute. The output of those instructions could turn a motor, generate a number, or turn on a pixel. Since we will be using p5.js, which is a javascript library--a library being a collection of commands--we will look at how commands are written in javascript. However, most programming languages have similarities in how commands are written so don't worry.

In general a command, or function, will look like this `functionName();` First you write the name of the `function` (usually written in [camelCase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camel_case)) followed by by `()` (pronounced "open, close parens") and then a `:` (semi-colon). Many times there will be some things written inside of the the parens, these things are called arguments and they are used as inputs for the function. If this is the case then the function might look like `functionName(arg1, arg2);` where the arguments are separated by a `,`.

So p5.js is all about drawing so in order to draw a rectangle you can use the `rect()` function. In practice this looks like `rect(200,100,100,50);` This draws a rectangle that is 100px wide and 50px starting at the point (200,100). Another function is `createCanvas(width, height);` which takes two arguments, width and heigh. The `createCanvas()` function makes a digital drawing surface on which you can draw. Here, lets give it a try.

<script type="text/p5" data-autoplay data-width="300" data-height="320" data-preview-width="260">
createCanvas(200,200);
rect(20,50,100,25);
</script>

<br>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/D1ELEeIs0j8?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
